April 2nd  - 3rd

I must say, I've heard some horror stories about travelling overseas. Long queues at the airport, flights being delayed then cancelled at 3am, sitting on the runway for hours, immigration lines that stretch to eternity, you name it. While my excitement to travel to France was high, it was tempered by the thought of something, anything, going awry. I'm pleased to report, however, that all was well.

The flights from SF->Newark and Newark->Paris went off without a hitch, with the plane arriving about 40 minutes early into CDG. Still expecting the worst, I waited all of 10 minutes at immigration (la douane), passed my passport through the glass, got it stamped, and proceeded on my way. Total French spoken at this point: 0 words.

With the surplus of time, I took to walking around Terminal 1 to stretch the legs, only realizing that I needed to find la gare (train station) to meet up with Xavier, who was scheduled to arrive about an hour later. I had a funny moment with some German businessmen trying to figure out which button in the elevator corresponded with the level that the airport tram was on - but it also broke the barrier on speaking French, oddly enough. With the pressure of speaking French for the first time to strangers past (and both parties not being exactly fluent), I was ready to begin my month of being French.

Living in San Francisco, I've become accustomed to hearing foreign languages around me all the time, and am fairly proficient at tuning them out. That skill is proving to be a hindrence, as I'm tuning out lots of learning opportunities! Quel dommage! This "wall of sound", knowing that there are words being spoken but one's ear/mind can't pluck meaning out of it, is definitely my biggest challenge in language learning. I think conversational French is faster than converstional English (or that's my excuse to bolster my ego a bit). Anyway, the tram ride was a good opportunity to push through this wall and try to follow a conversation.

Once I arrived at the station, I alternated between walking around the shops on the periphery and sitting amongst my weary travelling brethern, playing "Guess the nationality" before hearing them speak, getting excited when I pieced together a couple words of someone's conversation (even though the time it took me to process it put me several sentences behind in their actual converstaion), and trying not to fall asleep where I sat.

Once Xavier arrived, we checked the train schedule for our return to Montpellier and found we had another hour or so to spend. We went upstairs to purchase two cafes (tiny but strong espresso drinks), a croissant and a pain-au-chocolat, and joined a table with a random stranger since it was the only option with 2 or more seats available. Eventually our table mate struck up a conversation with Xavier and I proceeded to smile and nod blankly, emulating Xavier's mannerisms, but secretly, I was completely checked out. Surprising our new friend spoke English as well as I speak French, so she very sweetly attempted to include me with a couple sentences explaining what they were talking about, to which I replied, in my limited French.

I'm constantly impressed by Xavier's ability to switch modes, speaking speedily in his native French, pausing to give me an update in English, and returning to the main conversation. Steffi does this with her German and English; it is a proficiency I would like to achieve one day. If only high school me had known this day would come, I might have done more than the minimum (je suis desole madames Lyons et Chartres!). I will note, however, that I have reach an interesting point in my French appropriation - I find myself expressing certain thoughts/feelings in French more easily than in English. My current example is simple: using "mais non" (but no, literally) to disagree with something someone is saying. I like how easily it is to say my disagreement, it *feels* right to say in that moment (this notion of *feeling right* is so prevalent in how I speak English, and I'm slowly gaining a sense of *feeling* in French too).

The TGV is pretty cool, I must admit. More chaotic in the stations than Caltrain (obviously), but the ride itself is quite nice. Again, I imagine when things go wrong (or a strike occurs), being on a train or stuck in a train station is not pleasant, but our journey across France was smooth and pleasant. I will mention, only for posterity, that when two TGV trains pass each other going the opposite direction, there's quite the interaction between the air flow - it can be jarring the first few times you experience it.

The French countryside, at least that I saw (I did doze a bit during the ride), was quite lovely to watch fly by. With the train going into the city centers of Lyon and Nimes (that I was awake for), you also get to see quite a bit of the buildings and features of those cities. I'm glad we were able to take the train versus hoping on a quick flight from Paris to Montpellier. From a distance, I didn't see a lot of variance between the countryside that I'm familiar with in the states vs the French countryside. I'm interested to see the Bordeaux region and compare it with the Virginian countryside in particular.

Arrival in Montpellier around 18:00 meant we still had some time to spend before I could let myself fully commit to sleeping. After dropping off my things at Xavier's brother's apartment, we walked for a bit around the winding, narrow streets. This area of Montpellier is almost exclusively for walking, and the number and relative youth of most of the pedestrians gave the area a nice buzz. We settled into a table at an outdoor cafe, ordered two cafes (again, tiny but strong espresso drinks), and chatted while watching les jeunes do their thing. The weather was accomodating enough to permit us about an hour's worth of relaxation before the sun set behind the buildings and the wind picked up. We returned to the apartment to settle in, check in with work, and get ready for dinner.

A word about the apartment: OSHA would have choice words to say regarding the state of affairs of the building. It is quite obvious the building is old, but what's sad is it seems whomever the owner is has minimal interest in actually repairing or maintaining the common areas. I suppose with the abundance of students in the city, there will always be interested renters, but one can't help but notice the lack of pride in maintaining a pleasant living space. That said, the delapidated state is not so far gone that it feels third-world or unsafe; merely that spending any more time than required to ascend the staircase is not time well spent.

The apartment itself is small and cozy, but with the high ceilings, a loft was built to add some extra floor real estate. The two brothers seem to be living comfortably, though there's zero chance of privacy. A nice sky light and tall windows let in plenty of natural light, so working here during the day is pleasant and comfortable. The neighbors are easy to hear, but, at least on this school night, were quiet and sleep came easily and deeply. I don't know that we'll be here for a weekend night but I imagine we'll be unwilling participants if a party were to be thrown in one of the other apartments.

Xavier and I celebrated my arrival by going out to a restaurant that had all the signs of a cozy dining experience. The restaurant, Les Tontons Zingueurs, had two sections - a high tabled area that felt more like a tavern, and a back section with a more intimate dining experience. I had a fish serverd with a spoon in its mouth (there's a joke in there, because the server and Xavier both tried - and failed - to explain why that was funny) that was tasty and fun to take apart (remember, the whole fish is served, head, tail, and all those fun little bones). On the side, a small pot of vegetables, eggplant mainly, that was piping hot and delicious as well. For dessert, la crème brûlée! Xavier had the beef tartare (I think it was steak tartare de monsiuer de la montagne - basically steak tartare with a sauce on top), wonderful fries (les frais frites...mais chaud - probably more humor there), and a 'fondant au chocolat' - essentially chocolate lava cake. Super!

One secondary goal is to eat as the French eat, and thus far I am thinking this was a good decision! So grateful for Xavier's patience and humor! Here's hoping I can speak more French, understand more of the humor I'm obviously missing, and go to bed with a belly full of great food each night.
