April 4th, 5th

While my arrival to Montpellier allowed us some nice afternoon weather to walk around a bit, Thursday decided to bring with it rain and chilly weather. We did purchase some croissants, pain-au-chocolat, and pain au raisin for breakfast, all of which were yummy. Much as midwest Mexican food can't compare to California's, American croissants (at least as far as I've tasted) don't compare to the French versions. While I don't know that I could do le croissant et le cafe for every breakfast, it is a nice change of pace.

For lunch, we purchased some fresh sandwiches on baguettes; simple and tasty, we made short work of them and resumed our work. The evening brought us out once more, heading to the supermarket for some dinner items and other various needs. We made a simple meal of tortellini and vegetables (they can't all be amazing) and enjoyed watching some LoL tournament games (well, Xav enjoyed - I watched and wondered what was so exciting).

Friday came with much better weather. A little storm to clear the morning, and then sunshine and a warm breeze hinted at the Mediterranian spring arriving. Another breakfast of croissants and coffee, but for lunch, we decided to "do as the Southern French do" and took a long lunch to enjoy the sun and see some more of Montpellier's historic district. We ate some kebabs and fries with SamaurAi sauce (hard to describe) - super tasty as expected.

The history of Montpellier stretches back centuries, even to the Roman era, with a lot of wealth and power having stayed in the city at various times. The churches, momuments, and other features of the area show how favored the city has been throughout its history. We walked up to the still-standing Roman aqueduct (L'aqueduc Saint-Clément), walked along la promenade du Peyrou, and walked around and inside the Cathédrale Saint-Pierre (built in 1364 - no big deal).

Getting back to the important matters of food! Having taken the late lunch, we decided to push dinner back and get a small snack around 18:00. We settled on a couple selections of saucisson, jambon cru, some cheese (I'll never learn their names), and of course, some baguettes! Apparently, Xavier decided to order enough for 4 people, as we snacked our way through the night and found we didn't need dinner after all!

Thursday and Friday were about as far from a touristy experience that I still was having a hard time believing I was actually in France. Intellectually I know, but the feeling of comfort, even familiarity, in a foreign country is in marked contrast to my visit to Germany 10 years prior. In truth, knowing even the paltry amount of French that I do makes a vast difference over knowing a handful of words in German, none very useful in conversations outside of being polite and counting. While I stammer and fail often, I'm able to express myself somewhat in French, and that makes the people and situation seem less...daunting I guess. I think my time living in San Francisco and being around other cultures all the time has broadened my awareness and made me more comfortable being surrounded by people with vastly different backgrounds (and yet, as evidenced by the great folks I work with from other countries, we have so much in common as well).
