April 6th

Today we go to Bordeaux to meet up with Xavier's family! I have met Alban when he was finishing up an intership with our company, and all the brothers stayed in our San Francisco apartment while we were out of town and they visited Xavier, and I briefly Skpyed with Xavier and his parents prior to Xavier leaving San Francisco, but this meeting would be with all the brothers, and my first true immersion into French conversation.

In typical Xavier style, we made our train just in time, having failed to secure breakfast (but purchasing lunch), so we settled on some small muffins, madeleines, and coffee from the cart that travelled the train cars. Passable, but hardly the traditional French breakfast. Our train was not of the TGV, high-speed variety; instead, we stopped fairly often along our journey west.

I occupied my time with reading two books - one, a gift about a hockey playerin the NHL during the 70s in Quebec, which, despite my initial skepticism, has turned into a truly interesting book; and two, Le Petit Nicholas, which I have read once before and am re-reading to note any progress in my reading comprehension. I'm pleased to report that reading the first story a second time was much more pleasurable as I understood significantly more of the action, and found myself not translating very often from French to English. It was a nice milestone for me, as I'm pushing myself to not think in English when dealing with French.

On arriving in Bordeaux, we were met by Xavier's parents, both of whom are warm, loving people. It is obvious, writing this in the early Sunday morning, that they care greatly for their sons, and that they are extremely happy with the young men that are now before them. More to come there.

We drove for about an hour, first through Bordeaux, which is quite obviously a rich city. We drove along the riverfront, giving me distinct memories of Portland's waterfront, with lots of open grassy areas and people playing, running, walking, stolling. It was an idyllic picture, and I settled into the my seat happy to be among family. The conversation flowed fast between Xavier, his mom, and his dad, as they argued about directions, fiddled with the GPS, debated how many "sorties" in the roundabout the GPS actually meant. and caught up on each others' lives. Though I understood one word in ten, the converstaion felt familiar and I took joy in just being a part of the family chatter, though a mostly silent participant.

We arrived at Château Pomys, the `vignoble` or winery, where we'd be staying for the weekend and stepped out into a brisk, overcast spring day in the countryside. The main building, we were told, was a young one for the area - only about 2 centuries (siècles) old! The interior is pleasant, not too gaudy, and the rooms are small but immaculate. The other three brothers (and one girlfriend) arrived shortly after we'd settled in). After introductions and unloading into our rooms, the family decided to brave the cold and tour the grounds of the estate and take a short walk into the town. Poetically-minded people could paint a better picture, but the winery and small town are probably as you'd expect them to be; rolling hills planted with cutback grape vines, the overcast sky pressing down, the narrow roads in town, the church in the center, seeming to double as La Poste...it was all quaint and peaceful - minus the ruckus that les frères de la Grange can make.

Having three brothers and a sister, I instantly recognized the comraderie and fraternal love (expressed in making jokes with and about each other, the parents, and anything else that comes into view) shown among the siblings. This is family! Mirroring the car ride, I didn't understand much of what was said, but - the body language, the excitement in story-telling, the dead-panned faces when mocking - it all was so familiar, so close.

After returning and some deliberation about the wisdom in taking dinner so early, we retried to the common area outside of our rooms and had some more conversation and family time. During our walk and again inside, each fmaily member at different times tried to engage me in conversation, which I really appreciated. They all speak English, and quite well, so when I failed to make clear what I meant, we were able to clear up the matter in English and I got to learn a little more French. It's great to practice and stumble about with people that understand the pain of learning another language. I think what I missed in school was that connection - the teachers were so obviously skilled that they had forgotten, somewhat, about the fear, the embarrassment, the frustration that comes from taking the first steps in a new language. I felt empathy and encouragement today, not the pressuce of my grade being impacted, when I failed to use the proper tense, failed to congugate properly, failed to use the correct gender or quantity - and fail I did! Even with the studying and preparing that I did prior to coming to France, I still feel like I failed to do enough, that time here is a bit wasted because I'm so far from being competent (or as the French say, "Les incompetant"...name that movie), but I know that's internal.

Dinner...what can be said? It was amazing. Briefly, with the hope that I will come back and expound, I had the scallops (noix de St Jacques) for an appetizer, the sea bass for the main dish, and three little servings of crème brûlée (hmm, trend here?), with orange, vanilla, and cardamon flavors. I also shared in Xavier's escargot, Alban's foie gras, and Xavier and Quentin's cheese plates. All was delicious, enchanced by the jovial nature of all the dining participants. I was grateful only one couple shared the dining room with us, and they retired soon after we arrived. The energy of the conversation was hard to contain in the muted voices the venue seemed to require, and we frequently found ourselves having to quiet down to keep from turning the dining room into a bar or tavern.

Our server was gracious and efficient, tolerating my broken French, and kept the courses coming and empty dishes leaving, meanwhile staying away until needed. I was quite impressed with his skill and demeanor, and hope we weren't too much of a bother.

After dinner and the parents had retired, we found ourselves in Xavier's room. The brothers all share a love for video games and turned into little kids, showing off who they'd connected with recently, what games they'd played, exploits achieved, and eventually watching replays and live streaming of League of Legends. Aumery, the youngest of the brothers, and I had a nice conversation in English. What had me amused was his British accent when speaking! It was like listening to two different people when he spoke his native French and English. I enjoyed being able to share a little more of the talking, and the accomadation made to include me more fully.

Xavier's mom has asked me twice now, once way back when on Skype when we first met, and again at dinner tonight, when I was going to come to Reunion Island to visit. After this first day, there's no question I want to go visit. We'll need to figure out a time that Christina and I can come when the whole extended family will be together, because I can only imagine how wild and fun it will be to see everyone on their home turf, surround by their family!
